documentation/object-lifecycle/supported-lifecycles.md, before:

<!--Title: Supported Lifecycles-->
<!--Url: supported-lifecycles-->

Out of the box, the core StructureMap assembly supports these lifecycles:

* Transient -- The default lifecycle.  A new object is created for each logical request to resolve an object graph from the container.  
* Singleton -- Only one object instance will be created for the main Container 
* AlwaysUnique -- A new object instance is created every time, even within the same object graph
* ThreadLocal -- Only one object instance will be created for the currently executing Thread


## Transient

Older versions of StructureMap referred to _Transient_ as _PerRequest_, which might be a more accurate reflection of how this lifecycle behaves but 
causes some confusion with ASP.Net HTTP scoping.  The easiest way to think of _Transient_ is that a single object instance will be created for each top level
call to `Container.GetInstance()` (or any other object resolution method on the `IContainer` interface). _Transient_ objects resolved from a nested container, _Transient's_ are scoped to the lifecycle
of the nested container itself. See <[linkto:the-container/nested-containers]> for more information.

**StructureMap's behavior for transient objects that implement `IDisposable` changed in 4.0 to introduce an "opt-in" tracking mode.** Please see <[linkto:the-container/disposing]> for the details.

The following unit test demonstrates how _Transient_ lifecycles work in both root and nested containers. 

<[sample:how-transient-works]>

Also note that a transient dependency will
be created exactly once in an object graph resolved from `IContainer.GetInstance(Type)`. Imagine that you are building an
object graph with various objects that all need to apply some work to a shared [unit of work](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/magazine/dd882510.aspx) object (think NHibernate's ISession, Entity Framework's DbContext, RavenDb's IDocumentSession):

<[sample:transient-are-shared-within-a-graph]>



## AlwaysUnique

Very simply, using the _AlwaysUnique_ means that a new object instance will be created every single time a configured Instance is either requested
from a Container or as a dependency to another object. The _AlwaysUnique_ lifecycle is a "fire and forget" operation as the object instances are neither tracked nor disposed by StructureMap. 

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">The StructureMap team strongly feels that the default lifecycle is appropriate in most cases and that the <i>unique</i>
lifecycle is mostly useful for logging services as demonstrated in the <a href="http://jeremydmiller.com/2014/08/12/structuremap-3-1/">StructureMap 3.1 announcement.</a></div>

<[sample:how-always-unique]>

## Singleton

StructureMap 3.0 fixed the [dreaded singletons with nested container's bug](https://github.com/structuremap/structuremap/issues/3) that was so problematic in 2.6. 

<[sample:singleton-in-action]>

Do note that objects created as the singleton scope will be disposed when the Container is disposed if they
implement the `IDisposable` interface:

<[sample:transient-are-shared-within-a-graph]>

## ThreadLocal

The ThreadLocalStorage based lifecycle is seldom used, but the easiest example of using it and explanation is the integration test:
<[sample:thread-local-storage]>



## Legacy ASP.Net Lifecycles

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">The StructureMap team strongly recommends against using the old ASP.Net lifecycles.  <b>Most</b> modern web frameworks in .Net will use a Nested Container per request to accomplish the same scoping in a better way.</div>

<Nuget name="StructureMap.Web" />

In addition, the StructureMap.Web package adds the legacy ASP.Net related lifecycles for:

* HttpContext
* HttpSession (requires objects to be `Serializable`, not recommended but still present for legacy code
* Hybrid -- uses ThreadLocalStorage in the absence of an active HttpContext
* HybridSession

<[sample:AspNet-Lifecycles]>

If you do use any of the HttpContext lifecycles, make sure you also do:

<[sample:clean-up-http-context]> 

at the end of your HTTP request.

Commit message:

new ContainerScoped() lifecycle. Closes GH-410

documentation/object-lifecycle/supported-lifecycles.md, after:

<!--Title: Supported Lifecycles-->
<!--Url: supported-lifecycles-->

Out of the box, the core StructureMap assembly supports these lifecycles:

* Transient -- The default lifecycle.  A new object is created for each logical request to resolve an object graph from the container.  
* Singleton -- Only one object instance will be created for the main Container 
* AlwaysUnique -- A new object instance is created every time, even within the same object graph
* ThreadLocal -- Only one object instance will be created for the currently executing Thread


## Transient

Older versions of StructureMap referred to _Transient_ as _PerRequest_, which might be a more accurate reflection of how this lifecycle behaves but 
causes some confusion with ASP.Net HTTP scoping.  The easiest way to think of _Transient_ is that a single object instance will be created for each top level
call to `Container.GetInstance()` (or any other object resolution method on the `IContainer` interface). _Transient_ objects resolved from a nested container, _Transient's_ are scoped to the lifecycle
of the nested container itself. See <[linkto:the-container/nested-containers]> for more information.

**StructureMap's behavior for transient objects that implement `IDisposable` changed in 4.0 to introduce an "opt-in" tracking mode.** Please see <[linkto:the-container/disposing]> for the details.

The following unit test demonstrates how _Transient_ lifecycles work in both root and nested containers. 

<[sample:how-transient-works]>

Also note that a transient dependency will
be created exactly once in an object graph resolved from `IContainer.GetInstance(Type)`. Imagine that you are building an
object graph with various objects that all need to apply some work to a shared [unit of work](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/magazine/dd882510.aspx) object (think NHibernate's ISession, Entity Framework's DbContext, RavenDb's IDocumentSession):

<[sample:transient-are-shared-within-a-graph]>



## AlwaysUnique

Very simply, using the _AlwaysUnique_ means that a new object instance will be created every single time a configured Instance is either requested
from a Container or as a dependency to another object. The _AlwaysUnique_ lifecycle is a "fire and forget" operation as the object instances are neither tracked nor disposed by StructureMap. 

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">The StructureMap team strongly feels that the default lifecycle is appropriate in most cases and that the <i>unique</i>
lifecycle is mostly useful for logging services as demonstrated in the <a href="http://jeremydmiller.com/2014/08/12/structuremap-3-1/">StructureMap 3.1 announcement.</a></div>

<[sample:how-always-unique]>

## Singleton

StructureMap 3.0 fixed the [dreaded singletons with nested container's bug](https://github.com/structuremap/structuremap/issues/3) that was so problematic in 2.6. 

<[sample:singleton-in-action]>

Do note that objects created as the singleton scope will be disposed when the Container is disposed if they
implement the `IDisposable` interface:

<[sample:transient-are-shared-within-a-graph]>


## ContainerScoped

New in StructureMap 4.0 is the _ContainerScoped_ lifecycle that was designed specifically for compliance with the new ASP.Net DNX adapter model.
_ContainerScoped_ in this case means that a registration will be built once per `Container`, such that the root container, any child or profile
container, and every single nested container will build its own object instance.

The acceptance test for `ContainerScoped` is shown below:

<[sample:container-scoped-in-action]>

## ThreadLocal

The ThreadLocalStorage based lifecycle is seldom used, but the easiest example of using it and explanation is the integration test:
<[sample:thread-local-storage]>



## Legacy ASP.Net Lifecycles

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">The StructureMap team strongly recommends against using the old ASP.Net lifecycles.  <b>Most</b> modern web frameworks in .Net will use a Nested Container per request to accomplish the same scoping in a better way.</div>

<Nuget name="StructureMap.Web" />

In addition, the StructureMap.Web package adds the legacy ASP.Net related lifecycles for:

* HttpContext
* HttpSession (requires objects to be `Serializable`, not recommended but still present for legacy code
* Hybrid -- uses ThreadLocalStorage in the absence of an active HttpContext
* HybridSession

<[sample:AspNet-Lifecycles]>

If you do use any of the HttpContext lifecycles, make sure you also do:

<[sample:clean-up-http-context]> 

at the end of your HTTP request.
